# Introducing Revolution

### Background

In many ways DevOps built on the foundation of Agile to become a default — a standard that we all reach for in our everyday work.

When DevOps surfaced as an idea in 2008, the tech industry was in a vastly different space. AWS was in infancy, offering only a handful of services. Azure and GCP didn’t exist yet.The majority of companies maintained their own infrastructure.Developers wrote code and relied on sysadmins to deploy new code at scheduled intervals, sometimes months or even years apart.Container technology hadn’t been invented and applications adhered to monolithic architecture. Databases were relational, serverless wasn’t a thing.Everything — from the application to the engineers — was centralized.Our current ecosystem couldn’t be more different.Software is still hard. But we continue to find novel solutions toconsistently difficult, persistent problems. Now some of these end up being a rebranding of old ideas,m but others are a unique and clever take to abstracting complexity or automating toil or —perhaps most important — rethinking, challenging the premises we have accepted as canon for years, decades.In the years since DevOps attempted to answer the critical conflict between developers and operations engineers, DevOps has become a catchall term. And there have been a number of derivative works. DevOps has come to mean 5000 different things to 5000 different people. For some, it can be distilled to continuous integration and continuous delivery or CI/CD. For others, it’s simply deploying code more frequently, perhaps adding a smattering of tests. For others still it’s organizational — they’ve added a platform team, perhaps even a questionably named “DevOps” team... or have created an engineering structure that focuses on the separation of concerns — leaving feature teams to manage the development, deployment, security and maintenance of their siloed services. Whatever the interpretation, what’s important is there isn’t a universally accepted standard of what DevOps is or looks like in execution. It’s a philosophy more than anything else — a framework people can utilize to configure and customize their specific circumstances to modern development practices. The characteristic of DevOps that I think we can all agree on... is that it attempted to capture the challenges of the entire software development process. It’s that broad umbrella, that holistic view, that I think we need to breathe life into again. The challenge we face is that DevOps is an increasingly outmoded solution to a previous problem. Developers now face cultural and technical challenges far greater than how to more quickly deploy a monolithic application onto on-premises infrastructure.
